[SIGH]
[CHUCKLE]
Hello, my delicious
co-creaters.
Lilou here on the
magnificent island of Kauai,
the garden island, the magical
island of Kauai for Gaiam TV.
Here with Francesco.
Hello.
Hello, Lilou.
Thanks for having me today.
This is great.
What a blessing.
How beautiful is this
to be in this moment,
sitting here at the footsteps
of this beautiful mountain,
the sacred mountain?
Yeah, this is Makaleha.
And the Hawaiians
call this Makaleha.
Makaleha means "to
wander aimlessly,"
but in a good way aimlessly.
Not with a purpose,
and an intention,
and a force, but to wander,
you know, just joyfully.
And so I think there's something
about this Makaleha Mountain
that is great for us today.
And we're five kilometers from
the wettest spot on the planet.
And we've got a blue sky and
absolute, incredible, clear day
today.
And the rooster.
In the background.
Always.
There's always roosters here.
And if you listen to
the roosters carefully,
they're not saying
cock-a-doodle-do,
they're saying Makaleha.
It is really strange.
But that's the
energy of a place.
The energy of a place creates
a vibration that everything
seems to resonate with.
Next on Gaiam TV, Lilou
interviews a rooster.
A Hawaiian rooster, not only a
Hawaiian, a Kauaiian rooster.
Well, thank you.
I feel so really blessed.
I've been in Europe right now.
And to be here in Hawaii
and just sit back down
into this beautiful vibration,
this beautiful energy,
is such a blessing.
It's a beautiful island.
And beauty, spirit just shows
up in such a strong way here.
It's so important.
We all need ways to rejuvenate.
And sometimes, we go on
holiday to rejuvenate.
Sometimes, we go to
that little sacred place
that's around the corner
from our house to rejuvenate.
Sometimes, we have to go inside.
And to me, Qigong is a
way to go on holiday,
a five-minute holiday sometime.
And people think
I'm crazy that way.
But I think a lot of people
who practice Qigong discover
that it's a way to take
those 5, 10, 15, 20 minutes,
and just turn the world
down a little bit,
turn that volume
down of the world.
And find out and remember
that we are really generating
this dream of this world.
And that if we don't go inside
and work on that mechanism
inside of us that
generates this dreaming,
then what's the dreaming
going to look like?
A bunch of chaos that we seem
to be running after rather
than a world that we are
actually participating
in from the inside out.
And I think that's
why we need to go
on those holidays every day,
a few minutes every day,
to go inside, readjust,
and then watch what happens
to the world around you.
So you're a Qigong instructor.
I know you have made
quite a lot of DVDs,
actually, on Gaiam TV that
is available for you guys
to see it.
It's fantastic.
So much source resource
there on this website.
So how do you describe
Qigong, first of all?
Let's go back to the basics.
How do you see it?
Or does that even
maybe-- has this evolved?
Yeah, I think Qigong
is an evolving thing.
I studied with masters in China.
And I lived in China
for years and had
the opportunity to
hear other people's
perspectives of Qigong.
And then I started to
realize that in my travels
around the world,
in Italy, I heard
some old monks talk a
lot about this thing
that looked like Qigong.
And I'm in Thailand,
and I studied
something called Falun Gong.
And that sounds a
lot like Qigong.
And you're in India, and I
studied different things,
something called [INAUDIBLE].
All of a sudden, that
looked like Qigong.
Then I started to
realize Qigong really
is a reflection of
this universal thing
that we all do in every
culture, all throughout time.
And when you combine the breath,
and when you combine body
movements or dance, when you
combine that mental clarity,
and thinking, and focus
the Chinese called yi,
you have Qigong.
So those three
elements make Qigong.
And then when you
travel around the world,
you realize that pattern is
reflected in every culture.
If you go back to ancient times,
any place, in ancient Rome,
they had these systems.
So I love Qigong because
it's got a good handle on it
from a Chinese perspective.
But I want us all
to remember how
it brings us back to the
core of whatever culture
we have inside us.
The Chinese just packaged
it in a really smart way.
So you mean that
when you travel,
or if you're doing
Qigong here in Hawaii,
or over there, or in Italy,
it would look different?
It would feel different?
I think it should.
If you practice
Qigong from the heart,
then wherever you practice
it, you'll be like a rooster
singing Makaleha.
If you check the roosters
out down the road,
they don't say Makaleha.
Ask any local person.
It's the funniest thing.
So the vibration of an
area you're in affects you.
You're in Hawaii,
you feel happy.
You're in New York City,
you want to be intense.
When you're in LA, you
want to listen to music.
Whatever it happens to
be, there's logic of why
a local vibe sets you off.
But I like to get
people to start
thinking, what is it like if you
set that resonance inside you?
Instead of reacting to an
externality generated reality,
suppose you had an
internally generated vibe.
And then you connected
from a sensitive place
to what was really
happening in that locale.
So it changes the way you look.
You don't just become-- I
don't want to say victim--
but you don't become an
effect of that place.
You participate more.
And I think that
creates a more empowered
way of looking at life.
So tell us more
about how we can
feel this because this
world feels chaotic.
And there are so
much messages or TV.
And we're going right,
left, and more or less
living the life of somebody
else instead of our own
most of the time.
So I'm really,
really interested.
And I'm sure everybody
listening is really interested.
How can we get to this place
where, wherever we are,
whatever's happening on
the outside, we're there,
we're present,
we're in our hearts?
Isn't that what we all want?
Yes.
It's juicy.
But it's juicy.
I think the key is
it's about identity.
If Qigong has done
anything for me
in these years of
practicing it is
to really go back into a
place of redefining who I am.
So if I have a definition
that I am in this world,
and I've got to make
it in this world,
I've got to fight for my
little piece of the pie.
So it means I fight--
that's effort--
for a piece-- that's scarcity.
So there's force and scarcity.
That is a worldview
that most of us live by.
Because I believe that I am
this contained body, that I have
a certain, finite
amount of years
on this planet, a certain,
finite amount of energy,
I have to get a
certain amount of sleep
every night-- all these
rules that I've set up.
And what we're forgetting is
that we are an energy body,
that at the core
of this whole thing
is this fluid, dynamic energy.
And science has been talking
about this more and more.
And right now in 2012, we're
coming to the end of this year,
there's been so
much great science
coming out that is reminding
us on an absolute scientific
level-- from
astrophysics to quantum
physics-- that are telling
us, hey, we are just energy.
Everything is just energy.
All the problems we've had
with explaining anything
on the scientific level
has been because we've
been looking at the
stuff and not looking
at the energetic aspect of it.
So it goes back to identity.
If I can really understand
myself as an energy being,
as a light being,
whatever kind of new age
label you want to put it,
or go right to science
and say that I am this fluid,
dynamic field of energy.
And that I have influence
with every thought
over that energetic field.
I'm not just this
body, I'm this field.
The Chinese call it
the Wei Qi field.
That I affect this field.
Now I go through life, not
just as me against the world,
fighting for that
little piece of the pie,
but I'm a field of
energy that integrates
with the energy around me.
And that if I can set the tone
of this energy with whatever
kind of personal practice I do,
some way to keep reorienting
that from the inside-out
so that the world around me
will change.
So it's a whole different
vibe from saying manifesting.
I'm going to manifest this.
It drives me crazy when
people talk about that.
Really.
Because they get into trouble.
Ask anybody who has this
manifesting way of thinking,
they're never better than 50%.
Or somebody could say, well,
I always get a parking space.
Well, what happens
when you don't?
So you're putting yourself into
a big, troublesome place when
you think about manifesting.
But if you come back to a
place of saying influence,
it's a little gentler, and
you flow nicer with it.
Instead of focusing on
one thing out there,
you start from inside by
setting up this influence
vibe of saying, I am
not just this body
looking for a parking space.
In a car, looking
for a parking space,
setting up that bizarre duality.
But people do it all the time.
I hear people talking
this way all the time.
Yeah, and it's an
evolution, I feel.
Yeah.
But from that, let's move.
Yeah, let's move
to another place.
It's a step, it's an
important step to say
that I can manifest something.
And we do, in a way.
So it's changing
words a little bit.
This is not about creating
an argument around it.
It's about saying like you
said, let's keep taking it up.
We're in 2012
right now, somebody
might be watching this
video in 2015 or some point,
and look at how
things have changed.
So let's put ourselves
into that timeless place
of reorienting our identity.
And then say, if I am energy,
and I influence every atom
in my body with the
thoughts I have,
and that energy
field of these atoms
creates this field
around me, how far out
can that field go to ripple, to
influence the world around me?
Well, how far do
you think it can go?
Oh.
Infinite.
Really?
Because we see it all the time.
How many times have
you really shifted
a healing inside yourself?
Like an angry feeling
about a person
you've carried for
years or something,
and you finally just
said, you know what?
I'm going to let it go.
I really send that
person a good thought.
And then a few minutes
later, you get a phone call
from them or somebody
else, and you
hear something good about it.
And you think,
how'd that happen?
We all have those
kinds of things.
experiences of seeing
a breakdown of time
and space, where time
and space no longer influence.
That thing that happened in the
past no longer was the past.
It's right here.
That spatial difference.
How many times do you
send a text to somebody,
and they go, oh my god, I
was just thinking of you.
That happens all the time.
We're so lucky to have this
technology to bring us back
to the Qigong ideas
that we are immersed
in an infinite field of energy.
And if we get that idea, then
immersion in this energy field
says that we're
connected to everything.
And that's what science
is showing all the time.
Beyond this planet.
Beyond this planet, our
influence, we have no idea.
What we're doing right
now in this conversation,
with you and me, and with your
listening to this conversation,
we're creating a field
just by the intention.
What do the quantum
physics experiments
all take into account?
The observer effect.
Every quantum
physicist has to take
into account the people who
are watching the experiment.
The observer effect, just
people watching affect
the outcome of the science.
So we have to take
responsibility
for this fact that
we're in a time
right now that's
moving really fast.
The energy and the consciousness
is at a really beautiful
vibration.
And that we can
influence this world
in a deeper and deeper way.
In ways that your ego doesn't
want to really get a hold on,
it's scary.
Because it means you have
to take responsibility
for what you eat, how you
think, who you hang around with,
your attitude toward life.
And guess what?
That's exactly the language that
the biophysicists are looking
at in the world of epigenetics.
So epigenetics is this new
study right now that moves away
from what actual genes do, but
what the influence of genes
have and the influence the
world has on those genes.
And it's talking
about gene expression.
You might have read
It's the coolest thing.
No, I haven't.
Tell us more about
the gene expression.
This is the coolest thing.
And this is science,
but it's Qigong.
So it's the ancient
and the modern coming
together in a really cool way.
Thank you for
bridging those two
and having the
scientific conversation
as part of this too.
I think you can't discount it.
But before, we used to.
We used to separate all of this.
So now it's beautiful to have
this holistic conversation.
And it has to be because we
have a new generation of kids.
These amazing young people are
coming up that I talk with all
the time, and they get it.
They don't know a separation.
They don't have a duality
around science, or math,
or playing music, or swimming
in the ocean, or socializing.
Everything mixes
altogether for them.
So we need to come into
that holistic place
where the right brain and
the left brain mix together.
The intellectual left brain
and the playful right brain
need to converse.
So epigenetics is
this world of looking
at how our genes
express themselves
and how our attitudes
about people,
and food, and attitude,
and things that we are
involved in every
day, affect the way
your genes express themselves.
So mostly, what genes do
is they produce proteins.
And proteins are hormones.
Proteins are part of
our endocrine system.
Proteins are everything.
Our saliva, everything
in our body, pretty much,
is some protein-related
function.
So that means my
life is some level
of protein-related muscles
to how the stomach works.
Imagine that there
is an influence
you have on how the genes
that produce those proteins
do their job.
This is epigenetics.
"Epi" means "around."
So we're not just talking
about the science of genetics,
which everybody's been
looking at so hard,
and trying to study that
specific little gene
and what does it do.
All of a sudden, we're into the
energy field around the gene.
And believe it or
not, your thoughts
can emplace protein
and different kinds
of organic matter
on top of the gene.
So just like putting a
sheath over your eyes,
you can't see very well-- that's
what epigenetics is about.
The gene can't
express itself and do
its job because of
this emplaced protein,
emplaced organic matter.
But guess how you get it away.
You change the way you think.
So attitudes, and
thoughts, and the energy
we carry in our everyday
is affecting your body.
Not on a deeply genetic
level, but just on this
emplaced organic matter that
sits on top of your genes.
It seems so crazy,
but it's science.
And what it points
to so beautifully
is that we can change this.
I can't really think
about my genes too much.
I mean, it's complex.
But I can think about thinking.
And I can affect
a positive energy.
I can change my
definition of myself.
I can look at my identity
as an energy being,
and look at this energy flow in
this body, and see it moving,
see my body healthy, hold those
positive thoughts about body.
And guess what?
That affects that organic matter
emplacement on your genes,
and your genes start
to do their job better.
And that may be a
window into healing.
It's a different thing.
It's not going in
and doing surgery.
It's not putting medication in.
It's saying that I
have an absolute effect
on the function of my body.
I am perfect health.
Because in that DNA is the
image of that perfect body.
They just came just this
last week, actually,
a scientific
journal just came up
with some amazing information
that seems so insane.
But it points to the arrogance
we've had about our science.
They said all the
junk DNA-- junk DNA?
There's a lot of stuff
they couldn't explain
in the DNA strings, all
these big, long strings
in genes and DNA.
Like 97%.
Yeah, they said it
doesn't do anything.
And I've always thought, since
a kid, the arrogance that we can
think that something
in this perfect nature
doesn't have an effect.
That's like saying
some plant doesn't
have a medicinal
quality, it's a weed.
Then you find the
lapaʻau, Hawaiian
medicinal herb experts pick up
that weed and say, do you know?
If you boil this and
then use it as a compost,
it will heal your broken
bone faster than anything.
And you go, I thought
that was a weed.
So same thing in science.
These junk strings of
genetic information
turn out to be switching
mechanisms that
switch proteins on and off.
They don't have a
direct function,
but they influence
how a cell looks.
So every cell in your body has
the same bit of information.
But why does one cell look like
a liver cell and another one
looks like hemoglobin?
Why does one look
like a bone cell,
one looks like a lung cell?
Because that junk DNA, that
useless field of energy
has been holding the
perfect picture of your body
and knows when a
cell needs to be
made into a liver
cell, when it needs
to be made into a lung cell.
This is science,
and it's beautiful.
And it says that I can influence
that process with the thoughts
that I carry.
So if I start taking
a more positive view--
I don't think it's just
positive or negative.
It's more about learning
to hold that picture.
That picture exists inside
every cell in our body.
So if the perfect image isn't
just some new age thought,
but it's fact, it's the
science of every cell,
maybe that's why it's even
come out in our thinking.
Because we're carrying
it in our body,
and we just haven't listened.
So what is the
thoughts that we carry?
I'm getting old.
My back hurts.
I got a headache.
I have a blah.
And all the game that
we play is creating
the picture that epigenetically
blocks those genes
from doing their job.
And now we have a body
that's getting old.
And we have a headache.
And our back ache persists.
And all the chronic
problems continue
because we have, consciously
or unconsciously,
propagated that reality.
We are reality generators in
a beautiful, dynamic dream.
And I don't know how much
more we need convincing,
but we live in a
great time of science
where we keep getting it.
So we're lucky.
And so through practices
like visualization too,
and Qigong, we what?
Is it like a muscle
that we strengthen?
Are we talking
neuroplasticity here?
What are we talking about that
actually makes it so that then
effortlessly, we
become those "I am
perfect health" human beings?
I think it's about breaking the
patterns, these insane patterns
that have been set in our system
from government, and church,
and family, and
all your education,
has placed you in a world that
you are a victim of that world.
And none of those people would
ever say, we would never--
it's not a victim mentality.
Well, break it down.
It's taking the
empowerment away from us.
So it's no judgment.
It's just simply saying, it's
time to take back our power.
It's time to say
that I can think
about my body in a healthy way.
I can visualize qi flow or
energy flow through my body.
I can do little
things incrementally
to set up a new pattern.
Because I don't think we can
ever stop an old pattern,
whether it's smoking,
or drinking, or thinking
about yourself as a
human getting older
and moving into entropy.
You can't change those.
But you can set
up a new pattern.
And with these new empowered
patterns that we set up,
slowly, the old
ones are displaced.
So I think the best
thing we can do
is take on a practice like
yoga, or Qigong, or something,
as long as you're really
using the mind part
and understanding
how it influences
your body in such a deep way.
And that we rewire the brain
with every new thought.
And the more we
sustain that thought
and sustain that habit, that's
the plasticity of the brain,
is that those ganglion set
up actual hardwired pathways.
And they become real, and
easier, and easier, and easier.
So for anybody who's having
trouble in their life
and really feeling
the challenge,
I say, read a little bit
about this brain stuff
if you want some confidence.
Or otherwise, just trust
that if you stay on it,
and you stay with it,
and you stay confident,
and you really come
from your heart,
that engagement
of heart and mind
become this new
rewired mechanism that
will make it easier and easier.
And you'll start to see
the changes in your body.
I've seen it so many times.
People who are challenged
with so many different disease
states or chronic issues,
they cry sometimes,
because they say,
all I've been doing
is this Qigong over
and over again.
And I really have
stayed diligent with it.
And this is the results.
But it also depends on
the level of consciousness
at which you practice also.
No matter what we do, no
matter how you are in life,
or even when you do Qigong, I
guess there's different levels
in which then you really
integrate, or go deeper,
or absorb more the flow.
I think that's why
we have to stay on it.
I always call Qigong
a sensitivity training
because as you practice it,
you get more and more subtly
engaged in your
body's functioning,
in the world's
function around you.
The sensitivity,
you can see a person
and feel them a little more.
You might be able to not
react so much to a person
because your sensitivity
got to a point
to say, wow, they're just
going through something,
and what they said
to me isn't about me.
So now all of a sudden, these
micro adjustments in your life.
Yes, so it does take practice.
And to undo those old
patterns, destructive patterns,
it takes undoing
the inner chatter
that we have about our bodies.
Because somebody might be
a real positive person,
but you get to talk
to them for a while,
you find out they may
have a little bit of stuff
that they say about
their body that is
propagating that chronic issue.
So yeah, you go deeper.
And this work is
about going deeper.
And we live in a time right
now where we're supported
by amazing energy
astrologically,
and what's happening
with these alignments
of our Earth body right now.
You feel it?
Yeah.
So it's science that's
showing what's happening
on a deep level inside of us.
And I think it's for
everybody to really find out
how these influences affect
us, and then go with it,
and trust, and have the courage.
Because courage comes
from heart, right?
Coeur.
How do you say in
French, "heart"?
Coeur.
Coeur, that's the
heart-- courage.
So we need to be able
to have that courage
to be able to face those things
that are challenging and say,
I am dreaming this dream.
And that I can
influence this dream.
I do influence this dream.
So this kind of practice about
seeing your body as energy,
seeing the world as
energy, moving through it,
adjusting that resonance that
we hold our body to sing at.
What's the music
you want to carry?
What is that tone that
That's going to influence
the world around you.
What are some of the practices
or way of being every day,
daily, that we could take on?
I think the easiest thing
is just conscious breathing.
So if the three aspects
of Qigong are breathing,
movement, and the yi,
or the mental stuff,
than just a few minutes
of conscious breathing.
Because our breath changes
with our attitudes.
So if we get angry, our
breath gets short and deep.
If we get fearful, our
breath goes like this.
If we're happy, our
breathing slows down.
We see how our breath is
affected by the outside world.
So in Qigong, I like to get
people to think about how
to affect the breath
from inside-out
rather than a
reactionary breath.
So do some slow, conscious
breathing, really deep,
abdominal breaths,
squeezing the belly, really
getting a full breath out.
And then use that breath as a
symbol of this kind of image
that I am receiving
from the infinite.
Every inhale is opening myself
up to this infinite receiving.
And every exhale is a letting
go of what doesn't serve me.
So all of a sudden, something
as simple as your breath
becomes the most
intense spiritual lesson
you could have of the day.
So I think breath is
a great way to start.
And if people can
just slow down,
take five minutes to breathe.
And if you have a really busy
life, and you get in your car,
and you found yourself
rushing in the car,
putting your key in the
ignition, stop in that moment.
Turn the engine off, take
one minute to slow down
and breathe before you drive.
Little pattern breakers.
I think this is key.
And in nature, what is
your relationship to nature?
The fact that I'm naked most
of the time in this beautiful.
To me, rejuvenating
in nature is key.
So I think we need to redefine
our relationship with nature.
In that breath, part
of that breath lesson
could be the inhaling
of this beautiful oxygen
that we take in, and
remembering that oxygen comes
from all these trees
around us, and remembering
that that oxygen is the
exhale of those trees.
And that my exhale, my waste,
what no longer serves me
in the exhale, is
the food, the carbon
dioxide, that the trees need.
So there is another
spiritual lesson right there.
That what is junk for
him is food for me.
So all of a sudden now, you
should be able to put yourself
in this place of this
engagement of breath that says,
there's no good or bad.
What I release out
may feed somebody,
so I need to
continue to release.
There's no judgment
around that release.
What doesn't serve me
may actually be feeding
and helping somebody else.
So we want to keep
that releasing going,
and take in as much
as we can, and open up
into this infinite
sense of self.
So I think breath is one
of the greatest ways.
Yeah.
I just love it
because sometimes,
you feel guilty
for doing something
or even for releasing.
I felt it, like releasing
the negative thoughts,
you're like, where
are those going?
It's just like, what
am I doing with it?
But I love the recycling part.
Oh my goodness.
It's so freeing.
And the fact of the matter
is it's only negative for you.
I hear people all
the time saying, oh,
that person was so negative.
And the world is so negative.
I'm in this negative vibe.
You're the one who's
creating that negativity.
That's a really hard
one for people to get.
And it's really unpleasant
because the ego really
likes to have the definition
around the judgments of who
knows what's good
and bad in my life.
The fact of the
matter is whatever
negative energy field
you're in can just
simply be a resource for you.
I go into situations with
sick people all the time,
I don't see that person with
pneumonia as an adversary
to me.
They're not creating
something negative for me.
I hold the space of clarity
where I can go in there
and not get sick.
I've seen it with lots
of people, not just me.
It's what you define.
It's back to that identity.
That's the key of
this energy work,
is redefining who you
are in this dream.
If I am a field of energy, and
there's no good or bad, then
if I go into a
negative situation,
I can go in with that
absolute martial clarity
and not be affected by it.
So what's the game
that you're playing?
What's the drama that
you're propagating
in your negative world
around negative people
or negative relationships?
So that's all about energy.
It's all about going back
in and taking responsibility
and say, what kind of
world do I want to dream?
What do I want
this to look like?
Why am I propagating this
victimization mentality?
Whether it's me and
my body relationship,
or me and somebody
else, or me and money,
or me and health--
whatever it happens to be,
it's all the same.
Tell us more about that--
I guess it's not even
a transmutation, but being with
that seemingly negative energy,
or in those conversation
or situation,
and is that something that you
learned through martial arts
or even Qigong?
How do you flip that?
How do you turn that around?
How do you enter that?
My first real master
was in Hawaii, actually,
when I was 18 years old.
And he plucked me
out of university.
And I had a full
scholarship to be a doctor.
A lot of people
weren't very happy
when I left medical training.
But he was a doctor himself,
an 81-year-old wizard.
And it was amazing work.
That was the first
place where I really
got what I knew intuitively
laid out in a structure
about understanding that
this is really a dream,
and that everything is energy.
His word was "translate."
He was from England and
a real interesting guy.
And he would translate
what you held
as the language about your
reality in that moment
and translate it into
its essential place.
So it was a very interesting
kind of energy work.
Takes you to a
place of when you're
in a situation of scarcity,
or anger, or loss,
or grief, whatever
it happens to be,
how to translate that
into its essential place.
So over these 40 years, I've
been studying Chinese medicine
and understanding how the TCM
or Traditional Chinese Medicine
mentality was
always about getting
your emotions, the
five core emotions,
and learning how
to control them.
How to take your anger
and control that anger.
Maybe your liver function
is out of balance,
so we want to bring it back
into balance so your anger
comes into balance.
Well, taking with that old
master I studied with 40 years
go, learning
through that system,
more and more, I find
myself now sharing
that it's about
taking that anger
and not controlling the
anger, but transforming it,
like you said, transmuting
it, converting that sleeping
state into a waking state.
Take the anger and
understand that at the core
is a powerful energy.
And that if I work
with that energy,
I can take what the
expression of anger is
and turn it into a waking
state of discernment.
And each of the
five emotions, I can
see what their sleeping state is
and what their waking state is.
So I think part of
this identity shift,
understanding
ourselves as energy,
is to understand how to
stay awake in this dream.
How to see the things that you
do from a sleeping state where
they express themselves as
anger, or grief, or fear,
or some base level, animal
sleeping state, and say,
I have the opportunity
to shift that,
to transmute that up into a
higher state, a waking state.
Because really, it's
a sleeping state.
I love it.
Because we feel sometimes,
so alive when we're angry.
We're like rawr!
And all of a sudden,
it's addictive.
Yeah, of course.
A lot of us are just really
addicted to this stress,
and this fear, and this anger.
And because we feel alive.
You come back and you
tell your partner,
you tell your
friend or something,
yeah, I just got
angry at that person,
and I told them what for.
Rawr, rawr, rawr.
You win.
The ego wins.
The ego is the sleeping state.
The ego is that duality state.
It's the state of scarcity.
It's the state of keeping those
emotions in that sleeping state
so we feel like we're alive.
But we're not alive,
and we're not awake.
Because the magic that happens
when you stop that anger
reaction, or the fear
reaction, whatever
it happens to be for
your game, your dreaming,
and you make that flip,
something incredible happens.
When you don't play that game,
when you stop it for a moment,
instead of getting
angry at a person
and seeing somebody
for who they are-- I've
seen it many times--
that person might
just break down and hug you.
And all of a sudden, the
whole battle that's been
going on for months is over.
I've seen people do
it at a distance.
I've worked with my mom
on a particular situation
that I won't go into
completely here.
But it was an incredible story
that when she shifted inside,
and she went back to work
that following Monday,
there was flowers on her desk.
And the person that
she was in battle mode
for for months and
months, all of a sudden,
wrote a little note to say
how much she loved her.
And there was no communication
between the Friday workday
insanity and the Monday.
But my mom did that
shift inside her.
And she's not a person to
believe this sort of thing.
And so that was, for her, a real
turning point of understanding
the power of our
thoughts, and the power
of working with energy and qi.
Because when you see it
happen on a personal level,
you realize, wow, it has
nothing to do with me explaining
to that other person.
It has nothing to do with me
shifting something physical
because it's all energy.
So whatever I can
take responsibility
for and shift this field, who
knows what's going to happen?
And as we shift,
our relationships
change as well because there's
this womb-to-womb relationship.
Have you come across that, or
explain it, or work on that?
I don't describe it
necessarily that way,
but I think it's a
beautiful model too.
I go back to science
because of my nature,
and I see how atoms
are all tied together.
I see these experiments
where you can link one atom
and magnetically spin it,
and then have another atom
next to it and spin it.
And then move those atoms
into two lead boxes,
move those lead boxes
to different rooms.
And now change the
magnetic spin on this one,
and what happens
to the other one?
It changes its spin.
And there's no physical
way it happens,
and it happens faster
than the speed of light.
So we see replicable
scientific experiments
that show us how tied we are.
So when you and I
get into a rhythm,
we become intricately linked.
Something happens.
-Quantum entanglement.
-Yeah.
It's beautiful.
So we have to remember that.
So if that's the case, then any
issue you have with somebody,
you have an absolute
responsibility
to shift it inside yourself to
help them change their spin.
So as we transform
ourselves, the world
changes, our relationship
changes, or the people
transform, shift.
The work is here.
-It has to.
It's beautiful.
And so take it into a practical
level, I think, is what I love.
How do you take it into a
real, meat and potatoes,
everyday experience?
And that's when it
really becomes the work.
If it just stays in your little
spiritual Qigong practice,
if it just stays in your
little altar at home,
and then you go
back into the world
and you're complaining
all the time,
I don't think you're
really doing your work.
The work is when you could
put it into action every day.
And then that becomes
the miracle of this life.
And it's not even pushing
this from the inside-out,
it's just this
beingness is way bigger.
The out is already inside.
So why waste time?
Why think that
that's outside there?
It already exists in here.
Mapped inside my energy field
is the whole of the universe.
Has to be.
So I have to take
absolute responsibility
not in the manifestation
of what happens out there,
but in the influence I
have in this dreaming.
It's different.
People go around and say, I
created this, I created that.
I don't think so.
How could I have
created that mountain?
But maybe what I did influence
is the dreaming of engaging
me into being here right now.
That kind of thing.
So take it more in a
gentle place, I think,
is much more practical.
And then watch how your
influences unfold and ripple
out, and how you change
the vibe of this resonance,
and it opens up other people
to resonate in a similar way.
Beautiful.
Well, thank you so much for
this amazing conversation.
I wondered if there is something
else that is on your mind
or in your heart that you
would love to share here.
Just maybe listening to
what Makaleha's message is,
and just really know
that sitting behind us
is this amazing, blessed
mountain being, creature.
And that this idea of
wandering aimlessly
may be a good
thing for all of us
to remember to do
once in a while.
That we're so
focused on some path
of getting some thing done, and
moving towards some end result,
and just remember that
wisdom that we all know
that it's about the journey.
It's about wandering
aimlessly and trusting
in that intelligence
that's inside
of us, that's inside
that field that we're
in in the world around us.
And trust that intelligence
that will guide us.
We're exactly on the
path we need to be.
And she's got our back.
Amen.
That's great.
We're not alone.
We're not alone at all.
Thank you so much, Francesco.
I really enjoyed
this conversation.
Every time, you have this
just magnificent presence
and wisdom.
Thank you.
Thank you for
sharing today, Lilou.
Thank you.
Much love, my
delicious co-creators.
Thank you for
watching this video.
I send you much love from
beautiful, magical Hawaii
with Makaleha.
Makaleha.
Bye.
Aloha.